feat(nextjs): Add Next.js docs (#3319)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup/sentry-properties.mdx

---

> title: Sentry properties

Reviewer: Suggest moving this page to Configuration
```suggestion
title: Sentry Properties
```

sidebar_order: 2

> description: "Learn other ways to set the Sentry properties for your application."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about alternative ways to set Sentry properties for your application."
```

---

> If you can’t (or prefer not to) run the [setup step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#setup), you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can’t (or prefer not to) run the [setup step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#setup) when installing the SDK, you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.
```

> ## A properties file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Properties File
```

> If you can’t (or prefer not to) run the [configuration step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#configure) when installing the SDK, you can follow the instructions below to configure your application.

Reviewer: I agree. I'd suggest moving the Properties content to the manual config page.

> You can create a `sentry.properties` file in the base directory of your project, as in the [configuration step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#configure):

Reviewer 2: Oh well, understanding that this file is not even required, why do we talk about it and then tell people to prefer environment variables?

Is there anything that can only be done in a property file?

The only apparent advantage is when this file is auto-generated with the wizard to get people started. Still it may not be advisable to store it in version control, specially when it has an auth token.

> You can create a `sentry.properties` file in the base directory of your project, as in the [configuration step](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/#configure):

Author: Using environment variables is an alternative to this file, in case someone doesn't want to use it. Since the Wizard is generating it, I decided to include it in the docs; do you think it should be removed?

```properties {filename:sentry.properties}
defaults.url=https://sentry.io/
defaults.org=___ORG_SLUG___
defaults.project=___PROJECT_SLUG___
auth.token=___TOKEN___
# cli.executable=../path/to/bin/sentry-cli
```

> ## Using environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Environment Variables
```

> Using environment variables allows to have a more exhaustive control over the Sentry parameters the webpack plugin needs, and even to get rid of the properties file.
> If you choose to combine both, the plugin will choose environment variables over the parameters in the properties file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using environment variables allows you more exhaustive control over the Sentry parameters the webpack plugin needs, and removes the need for a properties file.
If you choose to combine environmental variable with a properties file, the environment variables will take precedence over parameters set in the properties file.
```

| Property name      | Environment variable |
| ------------------ | -------------------- |
| `defaults.url`     | `SENTRY_URL`         |
| `defaults.org`     | `SENTRY_ORG`         |
| `defaults.project` | `SENTRY_PROJECT`     |
| `auth.token`       | `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`  |

> You can also set the Sentry DSN using the environment variable `SENTRY_DSN` or `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN`, instead of having it in the `next.config.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set the Sentry DSN using the environment variable `SENTRY_DSN` or `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN` instead of having it in the `next.config.js`.
```
